in this video we're gonna talk about the
normal distribution or the bell-shaped
curve so let's begin by drawing a
picture of that curve and it's gonna
look something like that now right in
the middle we have the population mean
represented by the Greek letter mu and
to the right of that one stand deviation
away we have the Greek letter Sigma and
this is one standard deviation to the
left of the mean and then this is two
standard deviations away and then three
on both sides all the way to the right
we have infinity and all the way to the
left negative infinity now the area
under the curve represents the
probability of an event happening
between two points so the probability of
an event happening between the mean and
the first and deviation you can
calculate it if you know the 6895 99.7
rule so within the first and deviation
of either side from the mean there's a
sixty-eight point two six eight percent
chance that an event will happen in this
region and then within two standard
deviations the percentage is ninety five
point four five percent and then within
three standard deviations of the mean
the percentage is going to be 99.73% now
I hope that you're taking notes because
you're gonna need to know these numbers
it's gonna help you solve some problems
that are coming up soon now if we take
this number sixty eight point two six
eight and divided by two that's going to
give us thirty-four point one three four
percent
so that's the percentage of finding an
event between the mean and the first
standard deviation now the left side is
going to be the same it's gonna be
thirty four point one three four percent
when you didn't live a normal
distribution curve or a bell-shaped
curve you can have symmetry in this
problem and keep in mind the area of
this region is point three four one
three four it's the percentage as a
decimal so the area is going to be the
same as the probability of an event
happening within a certain region now
what percentage goes in this region if
you take the difference between these
two numbers so if you subtract a
ninety-five point four five by sixty
eight point two six eight that will give
you twenty seven point one eighty to
take that number divided by two and you
should get a thirteen point five nine
one and this number is going to go on
both sides so that's the percentage of
an event happening between the first and
a second standard deviations of either
side now to find the next number follow
the same process so we're going to
subtract these two numbers ninety-nine
point seven three minus ninety five
point four five that's four point Julie
then divided by two so the percentage in
this region is going to be two point one
four percent and the same is true in
that region as well
now to find the percentage that goes in
those two regions keep in mind a total
percentage from negative infinity to
infinity is a hundred percent so take a
hundred and subtracted by ninety nine
point seven three you should get a point
two seven and when you divide that by
two the answer in this region is gonna
be point one three five percent and the
same is true for this area as well so
you may want to take a picture or at
least write this down because you can
use this to solve problems associated
with a normal distribution curve now
it's important to keep in mind that mu
represents the population mean and Sigma
is the standard deviation now as we said
before the probability of an event
happening from negative infinity to
infinity is a hundred percent that's the
total probability which means that the
total area of this curve is one so if
you add up all of these numbers you
should get a hundred percent and the
left side everything up to here has to
be fifty percent which is point five as
a decimal so now let's work on some
practice problems number one the test
scores of a physics class with eight
hundred students are distributed
normally with a mean of 75 and a
standard deviation of seven part a what
percentage of the class has a test score
between 68 and 82 so feel free to pause
the video and work on this problem now
what I'm gonna do first is I'm gonna
draw a picture that's similar to the
picture that I had before but instead of
using symbols such as mu and Sigma I'm
going to use numbers
now we said that the mean is 75 and the
standard deviation is 7 so the first
thing I would recommend doing is put in
the mean right in the middle then 1
standard deviation away from the mean
we're gonna put the numbers as well so
we're gonna add 7 to 75 75 plus 7 is 82
and 75 minus 7 is 68 now let's move
another standard deviation away from the
next number from 82 and 68 so 82 plus 7
is 89 68 minus 7 is 61 now let's do it
one more time
89 plus 7 is 96 61 minus 7 is 54 and we
could stop here now let's put the
appropriate percentages in each region
so we know that within the first and
deviation is going to be 34 point one
three four percent
and then between the first and the
second stand deviation it's going to be
thirteen point five nine one percent
between the second and a third
it's going to be two point one four
percent
and then for this region point one three
five percent
so now we have everything that we need
in order to get the answer so let's
calculate the probability or the
percentage of the class that has a test
score between 68 and 82 so X is going to
be a random continuous variable that can
vary beyond 75 or less than 75 now all
we need to do to get the answer is
basically find the area under the curve
between these two numbers so we got to
find the area of the shaded region so
all we need to do is simply add up the
percentages between 68 and 82 so it's
gonna be thirty four point one three
four plus another thirty four point one
three four so that's gonna be sixty
eight point two six eight percent so
that's the percentage of the class that
has a test score between 68 and 82 now
there's a formula that you could use to
get the same answer in fact a more
accurate answer using calculus now if
you're watching this video and if you
haven't taken a calculus class don't
worry about it because the formula that
I'm going to show you you can easily use
it with the appropriate calculator and
if you don't have a calculator I can
show you how to use it with an online
calculator at Wolfram Alpha so here's
the form that you need the probability a
fun in an event between a and B is going
to be the definite integral from A to B
e e is the inverse of the natural log
function of n raised to the negative X
minus the population mean squared
divided by 2 times the square of Sigma
or the stand of EI ssin and this is all
divided by Sigma times the square root
of 2 pi and then we have a DX symbol
here now all you need to do
plug in the population mean which you
have that 75 you also need to plug in
the standard deviation which is 7 and
then plug in a and B in this case a is
68 B is 82 and then just type that into
the calculator and that should give you
the answer so let's go ahead and do that
so the percentage of students with a
test score between 68 and 82 is going to
be the definite integral from 68 to 82
and then it's gonna be e raised to the
negative X minus 75 squared divided by
two times seven squared divided by seven
times the square root of two pi D X so
make sure to use these parentheses that
I'm showing you when you're plugging
into your graphing calculator I'm going
to show you how to use Wolfram Alpha
towards the end of this video so you can
look for it then so let's go ahead and
plug this in
it's gonna take me a while to type this
in so bear with me for one moment
and it's gonna take a while for the
calculator to get the answer to so what
I got is point six eight two six eight
nine four nine so if you multiply that
by a hundred that's gonna be 68 from two
six eight nine four nine percent so as
you can see these two answers are not
exactly the same but they're close
enough so this is an approximation and
this answer is more accurate to the
exact answer so technically you should
be like sixty eight point two 69 instead
of 216 but if you rounded sixty eight
point three then you should be fine now
let's move on to our next problem or the
next part of this problem that is Part B
approximately how many students have a
test score between 61 and 89 so we're
not looking for a percentage rather than
number of students and keep in mind we
have a total of 800 students in this
class so first let's find the percentage
as we did in Part A so the percentage of
students with the test score between 61
and 89 is going to be so we start in
that 61 and we wish to end at 89 so we
need to find the area under the curve
for that entire region so basically we
need to add those four numbers so we're
gonna add thirteen point five nine one
plus thirty four point one three four
again and then another 13 point five
nine one
and you should get approximately ninety
five point four five percent because
these two numbers they're within two
standard deviations of the mean so
that's always gonna be about ninety five
point four or five percent whenever you
have that situation now let's confirm
this answer with a calculator
so we're gonna evaluate the definite
integral from 61 to 89 and then it's
gonna be e raised to the negative x
minus 75 squared divided by 2 times 7
squared divided by 7 times the square
root of 2 pi so notice that this portion
doesn't change because the mean and the
standard deviation is the same for Part
A and B the only thing that's changing
is the limits of integration a and B
that's all I need to change in this
problem so go ahead and plug that in if
you don't know how I'll show you later
at the end of this video
this calculator takes about five seconds
to get the answer so I got point nine
five four four nine nine seven three six
so that's approximately ninety five
point four four nine nine seven percent
if you multiply this by 100 so this
answer is more accurate but nevertheless
this is a good estimate of this answer
it rounds pretty well now this is not
the final answer for Part B so what this
means is that ninety five point four
five percent of the class has a test
score between 61 and 89 now there's
eight hundred students so what's the
ninety-five point four or five percent
of eight hundred so what I'm going to do
is take this number because it's a more
accurate value and multiply that by
eight hundred my calculator also has one
one here so if you take that number and
multiply by eight hundred it's gonna
give you seven sixty three point six
approximately now because we didn't with
people we want to round to the nearest
whole number so we're gonna say
approximately seven hundred sixty four
students have a test score between 61
and eighty-nine so this is the answer to
Part B now let's move on to Part C what
is the probability that a student chosen
at random has a test score between 54
and 75 so go ahead and work on that
problem
so here's 54 and we're gonna stop at 75
so basically we need to add these three
numbers so the probability of selecting
a student that has a test score between
54 and 75 is going to be so we're gonna
add two point one four plus thirteen
point five nine one plus 34 point one
three four and so you should get 49
point eight six five percent so that's
enough rock
Meishan pretty much a good approximation
now let's get the exact answer or a more
accurate answer using calculus so this
is gonna be the definite integral from
54 to 75 e negative X minus 75 there's
not to forget to square that divided by
2 times 7 squared that's
terrible-looking - I gotta fix that
divided by 7 times the square root of
2pi DX
and so I got point four nine eight six
five zero one zero two which is about
forty nine point eight six five percent
if you take this number and multiply by
100 so this is a very good approximation
and so that's the answer for Part C
Part D the last part of the problem
approximately how many students have a
test score and greater than or equal to
96 so using a graph what's the answer so
all I need is this region which we can
clearly see that it's point one three
five percent now we're not looking for
the percentage but the number of
students which we'll get to later so how
can we get the same answer using
calculus so we know we need to calculate
the definite integral from A to B now we
could see that a is 96 but we only have
one number here so what's B what should
we put for B now if you're thinking of a
hundred you shouldn't use that because
granted most head scores are graded
based on 100% like the highest value is
100 but sometimes teachers may have
extra credit so some students could have
a a score of 105 or 110 if you put a
hundred here you won't get 0.135 percent
let's call the function f of X instead
of writing the whole thing I'm gonna
plug it in so give me one minute to do
that
and so if you integrate it from 96 to
100 you're going to get point zero zero
1 1 7 2 3 8 so if we multiply that by
100 that correlates to point 1 1 7
percent approximately which is not the
same as this answer so what you need to
keep in mind is that this goes to
infinity and the left side goes to
negative infinity so you have to
integrate it from 96 to infinity now
this is going to be a problem because
for the most part we can't plug in
infinity into a calculator so we can
approximate the answer by picking a
number that's I need to get rid of this
we need to pick a number that is very
high that can represent affinity so a
hundred wasn't good enough so let's pick
a much bigger number like a thousand now
the answer will be exact but it's going
to be a very very good approximation so
if you go ahead and plug this in you
should get an answer that's a very very
close to this answer
so go ahead and type that into your
calculator now my calculator gave me
this answer point zero zero one three
four nine eight nine zero three so
multiply that by a hundred and that's
about point one three four nine eight
nine and I'll stop there percent so this
rounds two point one three five percent
so that's a good approximation now let's
determine the number of students that
have a test score that's equal to or
greater than ninety six so we're going
to take this number and multiply it by
the number of students in class eight
hundred so point zero zero one three
four nine eight nine zero three times
eight hundred you should get one point
zero seven nine nine and so for this
we're gonna round it to the nearest
whole number so approximately one
student scored a ninety six or more on
his physics exam so that's how you can
use the normal distribution curve to
answer problems such as this one now go
ahead and open up your internet browser
I'm going to use the Google search
engine and then when you're ready type
in online calculator indefinite integral
and then you can also type in Wolfram
Alpha so I'm gonna go to this site
Wolfram Alpha widgets definite integral
calculator and you should see a page
that looks like this
so type it in exactly the way I'm going
to show to you so type in e and then
shift six to get the arrow negative
parenthesis if you don't put the
negative sign you will get it wrong X
minus 75 squared at shift six and then
we also need to open up another
parenthesis in front of the negative
sign so nice open up two parenthesis to
keep that in mind and then divided by
open a new friend disease too
Schiff eight that's the multiplication
symbol times seven squared close
parentheses and close it again this
entire thing has to be on the exponent
of E that's why we have to open up an
additional set of parenthesis and then
divided by open a new set of parenthesis
seven square root s QRT open parenthesis
again 2 pi 2 P I and then close the
parenthesis twice now we're going to
integrate it from 68 to 82 and then
click Submit so you can see the answer
here point six eight two six eight nine
so that's about sixty eight point two
six and nine percent if you multiply it
by a hundred now the good thing about
this is you don't need to type in the
integral expression because that part is
not going to change the only thing he
needs to change are the limits of
integration so for Part B we need to
find a probability from 61 to 89 so
let's change these numbers and then just
click Submit and so we have point nine
five four five one ninety five point
four five percent if you need more
digits click the more digits link here
and then you can get a more accurate
answer which we had point nine five four
four nine nine seven and if you want
more numbers beyond that you can write
to your heart's pleasure now let's move
on to Part C so it was from 54 to 75
and so we did get this answer point four
nine eight six five and see a more
accurate answer point four nine eight
six five zero one and we rounded to 0-2
at least my calculator did that but we
can leave it as point four nine eight
six five four forty nine point eight six
five percent now for the last one now I
mentioned not to integrate it from 96 to
100 because it won't give you point one
three five percent you need to go to
infinity so as you can see point zero
zero one one seven so this is not an
accurate answer but as you increase this
value let's say to 105 it's going to
approach a more accurate answer notice
point zero zero one three four so it's
getting close to point zero and one
three five so let's try 110 now notice
that it's converging it's getting closer
to point zero zero one three five so
we'll need to pick on the large number
that represents infinity so we can try a
thousand so we get point zero zero one
three four nine nine and you can select
more digits if you want now let's pick a
number that's bigger than a thousand to
see if it's going to stay at this value
if it's going to converge to it if the
value changes then we don't have the
right answer so if we go to ten thousand
it might take longer to calculate notice
that this number didn't change
I guess it takes a longer time to go up
to 10,000 but you can still run it two
point zero zero one three five so if we
go to a hundred thousand it won't change
that means your final answer is if you
multiply this by 100 point one three
five percent because 100,000 is a good
approximation of infinity and so that's
it for this video thanks for watching